# Peer production adaptation paper
## Introduction
### 1. 3D Printing
3D printing refers to processes in which material is joined or solidified under computer control to create a three-dimensional object, with material being added together. It transfers an image onto a real object. 3D printing is used in both rapid prototyping and additive manufacturing.[[1]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing)
### 2. Peer Production
Peer production is a process taking advantage of new collaborative possibilities afforded by the Internet and has become a widespread mode of labor. Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) and Wikipedia are the best known instances of peer production.[[2]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_production)

## 3D printer-an adaptation of peer production
### Advantages from Open source development to desktop 3D printing
There are several 3D printers that are open source projects such as CandyFab and Reprap in the world of open source hardware. Open-source hardware consists of physical artifacts of technology, which are designed and offered by the open design movement. Open source development has actually brought a lot of advantages to desktop 3D printing. Desktop 3D printing started with the open source Fab@Home project and RepRap. These were both open source projects, the former a syringe extruder meant to print a wide variety of materials and the latter a filament-based 3D printer meant to replicate itself.[[3]](https://3dprint.com/171554/open-source-or-closed-source/) As interest in these projects grew, people started to contribute to them, and the RepRap project, because of its significantly lower build cost, started to gather steam. 
### Analysis from different aspects of 3d printing that can be open/closed source
#### 1. Firmware
Marlin is the name of the most popular 3d printing rmware, and it is totally open. All source code can be found on github, and many people around the world have contributed to improving the functionality of Marlin. There are closed source rmwares as well, such as the rmware currently being used by Makerbot. So most people in the community of 3d printing use Marlin, but there are just as many people who are average consumers, and they frequently buy the closed source options because they require less of an understanding out-of-the-box.
#### 2. Hardware
Many printer designs are published online in full. However, when it comes to hardware, printer designs are not the only thing that can be open source. The circuit boards and controllers, such as Ramps 1.4, are also completely open, and are frequently tweaked by users to accommodate for an addition fan, or possibly additional extruders.
#### 3. Software
The 3d printing workflow has enough steps that there are many places to choose between open and closed source software. In 3D class we use Blender to design models and Cura to slice our models into gcode. Both Blender and Cura are open source/peer production, however, both have closed source alternatives. For instance, we could use Maya Autodesk instead of Blender.
#### 4. Models
Thingiverse is a really awesome resource for finding open source models. Unless otherwise stated, those models can be tweaked and improved upon, then re-uploaded. This idea of collaborative design is so important to  the website that “Remix” is an option on every model by default. Just as with all of the other aspects of printing however, there are people who choose to not share their file freely. There are plenty of websites out there that charge for downloading their models.
#### 5. Filaments.
Filaments are, unlike the rest of 3d printing, usually closed source and locked down. Companies making laments tend to be very protective of their secret formulas and production methods. The community has developed a few ‘best practices’ regarding making laments, but for the most part, when you buy a roll of lament, there is no way to tell exactly how the lament was made. Having that been said, most lament is designed to operate with open source printers. So while the lament itself might be closed, the companies realize that if they want to make money, they will have to operate in the open community that 3d printers frequently embrace. There are still some companies however, who produce specialized laments designed to only work with that company’s printers.

*So in conclusion:* yes, much of 3d printing is peer production, but for every element that has an option to be open, there are several options to choose closed source. The community however, seems to favor open source by a huge amount, and as such, I think it is fair to label the community as a peer production community.
### Changes in these years
Open source hardware means that the design drawings, raw material tables, and software executed above are authorized through open source. And those who obtain this core plan can make changes to their products according to their own wishes, and even produce and sell. So many people can purchase the appropriate materials according to the 3D printing programs’ instructions, and their assembly costs are not significant, which means open source hardware reduces production costs for 3D printing. For 3D printing, open source hardware Arduino is the main reason for rapid decline in prices. It provides a cheap and powerful solution for 3D printers. With the cooperation of other open source technologies, the production threshold of 3D printers is getting lower and lower. Reprap is the first 3D printer to use Arduino as a control solution, and most of the improved products using it as a “blueprint” are also using Arduino as a master device.[[6]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCPcsBy3jsU)

However, MakerBot and other companies such as Bits From Bytes were commercialized open source systems and benefited from the open source community in general and their own communities around their printers. Within a few years over 500 desktop 3D printing companies emerged worldwide and the market grew spectacularly. MakerBot then became closed source.  Many people cite the example of MakerBot going closed source to imply that open source hardware or open source desktop 3D printers will somehow not work at scale. Other people still think that open source is fine and functional until investors will force companies to become closed source.
### Creality Responds to GPL Violation Backlash
*GPL*:The GNU General Public License attempts to guarantee your freedom to share and modify free software, which ensures that free software is free for all users.[[4]](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt)

Creality has opened up part of their code, and are therefore partially in compliance with the GPL. But they signed contracts for the other parts of code that they say stops them from being able to release that code. The act of signing that contract is in fact a violation of the GPL because in the end, they have used code protected under GPL, but have not reciprocated the openness, which is a requirement of the GPL.[[6]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCPcsBy3jsU)
We have been able to benefit from open source resources to build our printers because, despite withholding some code, their printers are still 95% open. The parts that they have not released code for are advanced enough elements. So we are benefiting from open source, but unless we give back, we are simply consuming and not contributing.

## Challenges for 3D printing being open source
### Challenge 1: Just consuming and not contributing
In this industry there are very many “open source 3D printer” companies who base their designs on RepRap or other open source designs but themselves do not share any source files. Whereas, depending on their license, it may be legally OK to do what they are doing, these 3D printing companies undermine the central open source idea. These companies benefit from others’ research and development by forking their own systems from another project and then continuing to commercialize it. They never give anything meaningful back to the community.This heavily harms open source development but depending on the license, the occurrence of this matter is not preventable.[[6]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCPcsBy3jsU)
### Challenge 2: It’s time for enterprise to become closed source
Open source is great for a scrappy little company trying to make a product. But now many companies are targeting the enterprise. Lots of people are willing to buy 3D printers from these kinds of companies now. So once these companies are stable and bigger, they think it is a suitable and good time to grow up and leave from open source. From their perspectives, “open source is just a phase like acne or that whole Dungeons & Dragons thing.”[[3]](https://3dprint.com/171554/open-source-or-closed-source/) If you want to build an actual business you will need to become closed source. They think that they simply need to remain competitive and hold their edge and they cannot keep giving all of those competitors a free ride. On the other hand, some participants will just copy everything contributors will do and they’ll take contributors’ hard-won research and development efforts. Bad participants would like to purchase cheap components to copy products from 3D printing companies. However, most copy products are poor versions and hardly work. They even sell these copies to the public at very low cost, which means good products from contributors cannot be sold and so puts contributors out of business. This situation drives contributors into bankruptcy. The result is that contributors prefer to become closed source so that they can survive and grow.
### Challenge 3: Only experts can apply it better.
3D printer is hardware and it is not like software easy to add small incremental changes. In the real world, hardware devices have many interchanging parts that all have feedback loops on each other. Many customers are freshmen in 3D printing and they often do not know what they want. And at this time they may have all of them incrementally improving the product, which is a giant waste of resources. As for 3D printer this kind of products, it should be made top down with a vision and design in mind to meet all needs of customers because it is not easy to change during the process. Only experts can really truly understand these devices and ensure that they work and meet compliance standards.[[5]](https://3dprint.com/208289/carnegie-mellon-3d-bioprinter/)
## Interview_3D printer teacher
### 1.	Do you think 3D printing is peer production? Why?
Many 3d printers absolutely qualify as peer production. That does not necessarily mean that 3d printing, as a whole, is a product of peer production. To illustrate this point, you can just look at the history of consumer 3d printing. The technology did not truly take off until a few patents expired that were keeping people from replicating various mechanics that are crucial to 3d printing. So private production has been part of 3d printing’s history for longer than even open source production.
However, the open source community is absolutely responsible for much of the innovation and advancement that we see in 3d printing today. Even the Wikipedia page for “Peer Production” mentions 3d printing as an example of open source peer production.
### 2. Have you ever experienced a 3D printing open source project? what is it?
How are you defining “experienced” here? If you just mean to ask if I have used open source resources, then my answer is that for every single category mentioned above, I have opted for open source over closed source whenever possible. If you mean to ask if I have contributed to any of the open source projects then my answer is that I have contributed to open source models and to open source hardware.  Both of the printers I have at home were built from scratch using designs openly published online, and for both printers, I changed a few details and shared my changes, thereby contributing to the open source project. For reference here is the most recent printer I built: <https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1001065> and here is the re-modeled part that I designed in order to accommodate 2 direct drive extruders instead of the single bowden tube extruder: <https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2501860>  Regarding models, I have uploaded several models to Thingiverse (in addition to the hardware model mentioned above) including my design of the lithophane lamp that you may have seen in class. Some of my designs have been remixes of other peoples’ models, which would thereby fall into the classification of collaborative design.
### 3. Do you think 3D print could be still open source? Or become closed source?
I think there will always be open source 3d printers and we can look to computers as a relevant comparison here. Mac and Windows are by far the most popular operating systems, and they are closed source. However, Linux and BSD are two alternatives that remain open source, and are still widely used today by people that are not afraid to learn them. This is likely the same place that printers will go.
### My experience about 3D printer
We are using Marlin firmware on our printers, Cura as slicer, Blender as our design software, and even the Chinese printers we are building were all based on open source blueprints. Without open source, our printers, as well as the ones we are building, would not exist. For the most part, probably we are not contributing to the peer production process. Unless we design an improvement to one of the printers and share it, then we are consuming without contributing, and are therefore not part of the production process.There are a few passionate individuals that produce products that the masses are free to use. Just like Wikipedia.I think 3D printing is best to open source.

## Conclusion
Although some 3D printer companies tend to become closed source, open source 3d printers will always exist. No matter how popular closed source printers get, there will always be people who desire absolute and complete control over their machine, and those people will always favor open source. This is an especially prevalent mentality to hold among makers. We can expect a few closed source companies to dominate the market simply because people will look at them and decide they would rather have simple machines with no learning curve rather than open source machines that can be intimidating from a technology standpoint. Despite market dominance being closed, open source will still be widely used around the world by people that care to put in the effort for the sake of greater agency.

## References
[1] 3D printing. (2018, April 05). Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing

[2] Peer production. (2018, February 28). Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer_production

[3] Should Desktop 3D Printing Be Open Source or Closed Source? (2017, April 19). Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://3dprint.com/171554/open-source-or-closed-source/

[4] (n.d.). Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt

[5] Carnegie Mellon Researchers Release Files for Open Source DIY 3D Bioprinter. (2018, March 28). Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://3dprint.com/208289/carnegie-mellon-3d-bioprinter/

[6] T. (2017, October 13). "Open source" is more than a marketing term! Retrieved April 08, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iCPcsBy3jsU
