# PEER PRODUCTION ADAPTION PAPER
### Akanksh Narayana

## INTRODUCTION
Open innovation is adapted by many organizations since it allows them to solve some of the trickiest problems. The topic I choose for the peer production adaption paper is Procter and Gamble Co. Procter and Gamble Co is an American multi-national consumer goods corporation, headquartered in downtown, Cincinnati, Ohio, which primarily specialized in cleaning agents, personal care and hygienic products[1]. The Procter and Gamble Co website has a “Connect+Develop” portal, where participants can submit their ideas. The portal has a section called as current needs, which is categorized based on the needs for different departments within the organization. Any participant who is willing to contribute, can submit their innovation related to a particular need or they can submit an entirely new idea that is not associated with any of the needs. The organization has been quite successful after adapting the open innovation model. This can be concluded based on the following statement by Ozkan in the paper “An example of Open Innovation: P&G”. The statement is as follows: “P&G leads the companies who applied concept of open innovation successfully in the world”[2] . The Procter and Gamble Co is a good example of how the Open Innovation method can be implemented successfully in a large organization. The participants get an opportunity to become potential business partners or potential suppliers of Procter and Gamble Co, by submitting their ideas in this portal.

## OPEN INNOVATION
Open innovation is gaining popularity in the present context since it attracts people with different skillset and way of thinking to contribute to a particular problem at hand. “Open innovation process consists of three main steps. These are concept phase, development phase and implementation phase”[2]. By posting a problem or innovation question to the public, the organization gets an advantage of having more than one solution to a particular problem. It also provides the organization new insights about how to approach a problem or potential changes that can be made to a particular section within the organization. Open innovation gives flexibility to an organization where they can combine two ideas provided by the users into one. The open collaboration and open innovation helps the organization to get insights about how a major task can be divided into sub-tasks. “Collaboration through open superposition is at the core of the success of community-based FLOSS projects, allowing an organization of task work that leads to the discovery of a work-breakdown that is both motivating and surprisingly coordinated”[3].
There are several disadvantages associated with open innovation. The organization that incorporates open innovation as a strategy are faced with a challenge when they have deadline for a particular innovation or problem. Suppose that Procter and Gamble co organization posts a need for innovation and they have to come up with a solution for this problem within 6 months. The organization cannot just rely on the open innovation strategy for this since they do not have control over the participants or users that take part in the open innovation. They should have a solution formulated within the organization, as a backup, in case they do not get any solution to the problem through open innovation. Also, some of the participants would be willing to share their ideas in this regard only if they get some reward in return. But the Procter and Gamble co has succeeded to overcome the challenges associated with open innovation. “P&G's open innovation strategy has enabled to establish more than 2,000 successful agreements with innovation partners around the world”[2].

## RESEARCH: CONNECT AND DEVELOP PORTAL OF P&G
As part of the interview, I had a talk with one of my friends who works at the sales department of Procter and Gamble co organization. He was aware of the “Connect + Develop” portal of the organization where they post their needs and encourage people to post their ideas or innovation for a particular need. Since he works in the sales department, he was not aware about how the best idea among them is selected and implemented. I also asked him if he was aware about any reward given to participants who post their ideas, but he was not aware of it too. I told him to ask around in the organization and extract information in this regard. I got a call after about two days, and he was able to provide me some information in this regard. There is a team that is dedicated to handle the “Connect + Develop” portal and this team is responsible to collect the ideas and present it to the senior members of the organization. He was not able to get specifics about the strategy that was involved in selecting the best idea, since it was confidential. He could not get any information if any reward was given to all the participants that posted an idea or to a participant whose idea or innovation was selected to be implemented. I also tried to connect with some members who work at Procter and Gamble co through LinkedIn, but was not able to get any information in this regard, since the person with whom I connected worked for a different team within the organization. I also tried to find information in the “Connect + Develop”. I found the following information: “Within P&G, we have a global team dedicated to empowering Connect + Develop, searching for innovations, working with prospective partners and shepherding breakthrough innovations through the company and into market. If you have an innovation that can improve the lives of our customers, you could be our next Connect + Develop partner”[4].Although the Connect + Develop portal explains what the page is for and how an idea can be submitted, there is not much information available about how the idea would be finalized and if there was any reward given for contributing to the open innovation. The only rewards I could see was about being potential business partners and potential supplier to P&G.

## CONNECT AND DEVELOP PORTAL OF P&G: OPEN INNOVATION
The Connect + Develop portal of Procter and Gamble Co has different categories under which the current needs for that particular category is posted. The different categories are as follows:
-	Oral , Personal and Family Care Innovations
-	Beauty and Grooming Innovations
-	Household Care Innovations
-	Packaging Innovations
-	Industrial and Manufacturing Innovations
-	Digital, Business and Retail Innovations
-	P&G Venture Labs
-	Other Innovation Needs
The portal is well organized so that a participant who is posting an innovation for the first time does not experience difficultly. There is also a link provided to submit an innovation that does not belong to any of the categories mentioned in the portal. The participant has two options while submitting an idea. He can submit a solution to the current need from the organization posted in the portal or he can submit a new innovation or idea that is not mentioned under the current needs. The Procter and Gamble Co has seen great success after adapting the Connect and Develop strategy. “More than 35 percent of P&G’s new products in market had elements that originated from outside P&G. It was about 15 percent in 2000. And 45 percent of the initiatives in their product development portfolio had key elements that were discovered externally”[2].

## OPEN INNOVATION VS OPEN COLLABORATION
The concept of Open Innovation is slightly different from the concept of Open Collaboration that was discussed in most of the readings. In Open Innovation, a participant posts his innovation idea for a particular need of an organization or post an idea that could improve an aspect of the organization. The participant does not get a chance to see the ideas that are already submitted in this regard. The organization reviews each of the ideas and decide upon which idea is best suited for the organization and which idea is feasible. A participant cannot build upon or improve an innovation that is posted by another participant. The Open Innovation strategy allows external researchers to contribute towards a success of an organization in contrast to the Research and Development method where only the internal researchers of the company are involved. The Open Innovation method is also helpful to obtain information about cross-cultural research. The Open Collaboration method allows various people to work on a particular task at hand. The main advantage of Open Collaboration is that it allows various participants to work simultaneously on a task. It also allows the participants to break down a larger task into sub-task. The participants can also collaborate with each other to by taking up small parts of the task, which would eventually lead to solving the larger task at hand. The paper “Collaboration through Open Superposition” explains the advantages associated with Open Collaboration as follows: “Working through open superposition can lead to the discovery of a work breakdown that results in complex, functionally interdependent, work being accomplished without crippling search costs”[3]. Both these methods are not effective if a particular work has to be done within a deadline. The Open Collaboration method gives the flexibility for the participant to breakdown the major task into sub-tasks. But, in Open Innovation, each participant has to solve the task as a whole. The participant does not have an option to work on part of a task. The Procter and Gamble Co expects the participants to provide a complete idea or a complete solution to the need or problem at hand. Both, Open Innovation and Open Collaboration methods aims at involving external participants or researchers to work on the problem at hand.

## CONCLUSION
Open innovation can be an effective method that can lead to the success of the organization. This method can be incorporated by organization of any size: small, medium or large, and can lead to success if used effectively. The success of Procter and Gamble Co after adapting this method shows that this method can be used even for large organizations. There are lot of advantages associated with open innovation such as reducing research costs, staying ahead of competition, creating new revenue streams for an organization, and getting several ideas that can improve the present innovation strategy. The Procter and Gamble Co improved its profits after adapting this method, since the cost involved for research went down drastically. The open innovation method is also advantageous to individuals and small organizations to become potential business partners of large organizations by sharing their innovative idea or sharing an idea that satisfies the current need of an organization. In case of Procter and Gamble Co, this method allowed suppliers to showcase their innovative ideas, providing them an opportunity of becoming potential suppliers for this large organization. The organization adapting this method would also have an opportunity to check whether the innovative idea is already implemented elsewhere and build on this idea so that it can be implemented within the organization. Open innovation also has several disadvantages. You cannot solely rely on this method for extracting an idea if you have some deadline associated with this implementation. “Open innovation can lead to thorny disagreements, as evidenced by the disputes between Apple and Samsung over patent violations”[5]. Although, this method has some disadvantages, it is still a good method to be incorporated by an organization since it has a lot of advantages.

## REFERENCES
1. “Procter & Gamble.” Wikipedia, April 4, 2018. https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Procter_%26_Gamble&oldid=834264920.
2. Ozkan, Nesli Nazik. “An Example of Open Innovation: P&G.” World Conference on Technology, Innovation and Entrepreneurship 195 (July 3, 2015): 1496–1502. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.06.450.
3.	University of Texas at Austin, James Howison, Kevin Crowston, and Syracuse University. “Collaboration Through Open Superposition: A Theory of the Open Source Way.” MIS Quarterly 38, no. 1 (January 1, 2014): 29–50. https://doi.org/10.25300/MISQ/2014/38.1.02.
4.	“What Is Connect + Develop?” Accessed April 8, 2018. https://www.pgconnectdevelop.com/what-is-connect-develop/.
5.	“The Benefits of Open Innovation.” World Economic Forum. Accessed April 8, 2018. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2015/02/the-benefits-of-open-innovation/.
