# Peer production adaptation——WikiHouse

## Abstract
WikiHouse is an open source project to reinvent the way people make homes. It is being developed by architects, designers, engineers, inventors, manufacturers and builders, collaborating to develop the best, simplest, most sustainable, high-performance building technologies, which anyone can use and improve [“about”, 2018][1]. This paper explores the WikiHouse from the perspective of peer production, describes the collaboration infrastructure and also identifies the challenge faced by the adaptation of WikiHouse in an open source way. 

## Key word
WikiHouse, open source, peer production

## Introduction
Peer production is on the rise as a new pathway of value creation, Free and open source software is the great example of it. However, Open source has long existed not only in the software world, "open source hardware" is making the "factory" everywhere. The open source movement isn’t only revolutionizing technology and how we share things; it also promises to transform the way we design, construct and interact with our buildings and open source is being applied to more crazy areas. Alastair Parvin is an architect from the UK and is also the person who promoted WikiHouse. He found that the smartest and best designers and architects can only work for the richest people in the world. The challenge for the next generation of designers is how to contribute their own designs to more people. Whether it is poverty or wealth. The WikiHouse platform was born under this idea.  Since WikiHose is still at a starting stage, this paper explores the current condition of the WikiHouse and analyzes the efforts of WikiHouse to adapt peer production.
## WikiHouse
WikiHouse is a UK-based non-profit foundation developing an open-source construction set which allows anyone to design, share, fabricate and assemble their own house. The blueprints shared on the platform allow communities or enterprises worldwide to build affordable, sustainable, needs-based housing [“case-studey-wikihouse”, 2018][2].
The project is maintained and developed by a worldwide community of designers, builders, hackers, engineers, inventors, architects and financial backers, brought together through the WikiHouse online community. According to WikiHouse: “The community means anyone who uses, adapts or co-develops WikiHouse products and tools, or anyone who follows or leads the project. Anyone can be part of it, there is no formal membership or ‘edge’ to the community.” Collaborators are encouraged to create local WikiHouse “Chapters” by signing a special trademark agreement which prioritises autonomy, sustainability, full sharing and, in case of commercial activity, a needs-based non-speculative orientation. Creative Commons BY-SA licensed building plans can be downloaded from the WikiHouse online repository and then customized and improved upon. House components are made out of plywood, cut by CNC machines and then fit together, jigsaw-puzzle style — assembly does not require specialised tools. A team of two or three people can assemble a basic house structure in less than a day. WikiHouse also provides housing design standards and guidelines, including the use of nails, the structure and specifications of the connection between the plates. At the same time, it also assigns the design to different series based on the width of the house. This standardization process also ensures the quality of open source projects. The aim of WikiHouse is for these technologies to become new industry standards; the bricks and mortar of the digital age [“about”, 2018][1]. As an open-source project for designing and building houses. All house designs are owned by the community as a common. It gives anyone the opportunity to build houses quickly and easily.
## Collaboration infrastructure   
WikiHouse technologies are being developed by an open community of architects, designers, engineers and builders around the world. Anyone is invited to participate, either by improving, spreading or adapting existing technologies, or developing new technologies using the WikiHouse design principles. WikiHouse Contributors currently meet in Slack. No matter your expertise, anyone may request access to the group. The key thing contributors have in common, is a drive to lead the development of WikiHouse and its design principles, in their own communities by learning from each other.

The WikiHouse ecosystem is a distinct example of Commons-based peer production being applied to a “design global, manufacture local” processes: What is light (the design templates, blueprints, help manuals and support) is shared globally, while what is heavy (cutting the wood, assembling the house) takes place locally, with improvements on the design then fed back into the common-resource global pool. Peer-to-peer infrastructures allow people to communicate, self-organise and co-create digital commons of knowledge, software and design. It is facilitated by a non-profit foundation, as with most immaterial CBPP projects, but by licensing the plans under a Creative Commons license that allows commercial activity (CC-BY-SA), generative entrepreneurs may create added value around the non-commodified design commons by providing building services, consulting, workshops, etc[“peer-to-peer-production-and-the-partner-state/2017/08/30”, 2018][3].

BibDesk Project is a collaboration process through superposition. Work proceeded in small, independent tasks, each with a functional pay-off through its changes to the codebase and thus the application. These changes layered on top of each other over time, each conceived and implemented for their own sake, yet simultaneously creating the circumstances taken as given for the production of the next layer in a way analogous to the superposition of rock strata["howison-2014-superposition", 2018][4].

Compare the BibDesk project and WikiHouse, the Collaboration through open superposition might be frustratingly slow and uncertain from a traditional management perspective that seeks to do more with known, expensive, but coercible, resources. WikiHouse’s online cooperation is more convenient and efficient because the open source community provides more guidance and feedback ways. At the same time, another part of collaboration of WikiHouse is locally carried out. People work together by face-to-face way instead of online, which means that the communication is more efficient and the response time is greatly shortened. 

## Challenges for Adaptation
Now, there have been many open source projects, but most focused only on digital technology or on too small scale physical products. WikiHouse works on a house scale that means it has to face more practical problems when it comes to the peer production way. This process of bringing peer production to the physical world: A design is created using the digital commons of knowledge, software and design, and then produced using local manufacturing and automation technologies. These can include three-dimensional printers, computer numerical control (CNC) machines or even low-tech crafts tools and appropriate technology — often in combination.

First of all, WikiHouse has to challenge the traditional construction ideas and attract more people to get involved in the open source project. Particularly because the WikiHouse platform is moved by a very ambitious cause for which they need a huge number of followers: they aim to change the paradigm of a millenarian history of construction. And as his partner Indy Johar adds, the challenges of the WikiHouse project are really enormous since they are “prototyping the reality of socializing design while simultaneously democratizing production, and in the process provoking a serious challenge to the industrial and intellectual dogmas of a professional elite”. Here resides the immeasurable value of the support and efforts of the community ["#.WsrFadPOXOQ", 2018][5].

Besides, although Wikihouse provides the architectural design drawings that designers have uploaded and guidelines for the construction, it is still difficult for people to using the open source because of the cost of machines, material and human resource, which means that WikiHouse open source project should be cheaper or more functional with respect to traditional building techniques. Is it possible to create a platform so user-friendly that anyone can log on, design a house and “print” its components with the click of a button? Not quite. The need for a CNC mill severely limits the project’s D.I.Y. potential. Although CNC mills are becoming more affordable, they remain prohibitively expensive for most. The designers seem to be aware of these challenges and are wary of having D.I.Y. become a privilege for those with time and money. If WikiHouse is to serve the needs of the poor and marginalized, it needs to expand its collaborative ethos into the building and financing process["wikihouse",2018][6]. For instance, WikiHouse is now looking at sheet materials using reprocessed plastics, which could reduce the meterial cost considerably.

In addition, the capacity of the WikiHouse platform to support the big open sharing and collaborative challenge, for example, looking for new material and open off-grid energy products, is hugely limited at present. They are using google groups, which is a bit like collaborating in the 1990s. From the interview of a member of WikiHouse, they are currently trying to get some funding to build a much more open, accessible wiki, which can practically work to support 3D hardware["interview-to-alastair-parvin-and-wikihouse-project", 2018][7]. There’s huge potential in developing this platform to support more complex and valuable projects. 

## Conclusion
Imagine a process where designs are co-created, reviewed and refined as part of a global digital commons (i.e. a universally available shared resource). Meanwhile, the actual manufacturing takes place locally, often through shared infrastructures and with local biophysical conditions in mind. The process of making something together as a community creates new ideas and innovations which can feed back into their originating design commons [“reimagine-dont-seize-the-means-of-production”, 2018][8]. This cycle describes the WikiHouse working way. The building construction system has always been designed and implemented by professionals. This is a closed system that is complex and uneconomical and has a strong sense of distance for users. In many cases, the design of buildings and even cities are controlled by capital, not by the actual needs of the users. Wikihouse, serves as open-source construction set, provides an opportunity for everyone to get involved in the construction in an energy self-sufficiency, environmental friendly, efficiently peer production way. Even if it is in its early stages, this open source building project has spread around the world. In Christchurch, New Zealand, a team used WikiHouse's resources to establish post-earthquake resettlement housing. WikiHouse has also collaborated with a team in the Rio de Janeiro slum to build community factories and micro-universities. There are also people using open-source drawings to set up an independent conference room in a room with huge space. It could be expected that a larger part of the open source community will join the WikiHouse dream by supporting the Open-Challenge they recently launched, sustaining the crowd-funded campaign and improving the construction systems. 

## References

[1]https://wikihouse.cc/about

[2]https://primer.commonstransition.org/4-more/5-elements/case-studies/case-study-wikihouse

[3]https://blog.p2pfoundation.net/peer-to-peer-production-and-the-partner-state/2017/08/30

[4]http://james.howison.name/pubs/howison-2014-superposition.pdf

[5]http://complexitys.com/english/events/WikiHouse/#.WsrFadPOXOQ

[6]http://www.thepolisblog.org/2012/07/wikihouse.html

[7]https://www.open-electronics.org/interview-to-alastair-parvin-and-wikihouse-project/

[8]http://www.resilience.org/stories/2018-01-22/reimagine-dont-seize-the-means-of-production/

