# Peer production adaptation
    -----Minglang Xie
    
In this paper, I am going to discuss about peer production in tourism area. Here I introduce a peer production application named TripAdvisor. As it was first founded by Stephen Kaufer, it focused on rating different resorts and hotels and gave recommendations to new tourists. The highlight is that it let everyone speak and comment freely. 

TripAdvisor contains many of the trademark features of a peer production community. It is a peer production product because it conforms to three important conditions of peer production: the community allows dozens of people to participate in it and not just an individual, the website is open to contribution, and these contributions lead to the production of content. A decentralized system of its database lets the website governed by main administrator at the top of the hierarchy. The main administrator delegates moderation and maintenance tasks to various lower positions. These positions include volunteer administrators and database moderators that approve or deny all changes made on the website. **{1}**

Like other peer production communities such as Wikipedia, one can start his own account and then make comments and ratings, even add new places and hotels under discussions. It also has a forum for open discussions among travellers. Everyone can contribute to the optimization of this website and service. It is also called Web 2.0.

The second generation of Web-based services (Web 2.0) allows online users to form and participate in social communities to (co-)create and distribute Web content. **{2}**

Here is an interview: A growing number of Web users participate in such content sharing and related online social activities, reported that 72 % of online U.S. adults use social networking sites today and more than a third of American consumers rate products/services (37 %) or post comments/reviews about products/services (32 %) online. Among various user-generated content topics, tourism-related contents are often the most popular issues shared and consumed by users. Importantly, social media use has increasingly been integrated into all phases of the tourism experience. The findings show that over eight in ten U.S. online travellers are active on social networks and more than half of them even access social sites while travelling to post about their trips.

The content created by travellers is perceived as highly trustworthy **{3}**, credible and relevant, and up-to-date and engaging; thus, trip planners often take consumer-generated travel reviews into account during their decision-making process as the intangibility of tourism experiences makes pre-purchase trial impossible and therefore increases the need for accounts of first-person experience reports. As such, user-generated content plays an important role in influencing destination awareness and selection as well as destination brand and image creation. While there are various websites that provide traveller-generated content, TripAdvisor is the world’s largest travel content community and the most popular travel information site, empowering users to write, search, and share travel reviews. According to a presentation by TripAdvisor at the Social Media in Tourism Australia Symposium, most social media traffic to travel websites comes from four sources: Facebook, TripAdvisor, Twitter, and Pinterest. Among them, TripAdvisor drives the most consumers, who spend more time on the site and view more pages.

Many cultural organizations are experimenting with integrating their own online presence with popular online community services, tools and platforms such as Facebook, Flickr and the Wikipedia. For example, the East Lothian Museum has put up a large photo set of its collections into Flickr. At the same time, RFID tags and other wireless technologies along with increasingly inexpensive display technologies are making it feasible to have museum display labels and other associated media dynamically delivered to visitors. For example, the Live!Label project aims to make labels describing museum collections dynamic through networked LCD displays. Potentially, a museum could deliver customized presentation of its collections for each visitor, combining both museum-developed information and information exchanged by other visitors in social media systems.

The full potential of thee social and collaborative systems to enhance tourism experiences has yet to be reached. “Peer production”, or the collaboration of volunteer communities, is emerging as a major economic force impacting the software industry, journalism, the arts, education, and many other sectors. 

As ubiquitous and highly mobile computing continues to develop, the impact of peer production in tourism will become increasingly apparent. Such technologies will enable users to create and engage with user generated content much more conveniently with mobile devices while they experience tourist destinations. However digital representations of places will not likely replace tourism. Tourism is a highly embodied practice that involves walking, traveling, relaxing, eating, smelling, and all sorts of other activities with no easy virtual surrogate **{4}**. Blending the real and the virtual with “augmented reality” technologies will probably have a greater impact.

Rich information resources delivered through mobile devices can help tourists learn more about the history and culture of different places. Others augmented realities may include gaming environments that transform mundane locations into places of play. The same technologies can also transform places into fictional realities. Some augmented realities may be very elaborate fantasy environments, created by fan communities via peer production. For example, locations used in the filming of the Lord of the Rings movie trilogy are popular attractions for many tourists in New Zealand. Locations associated with famous authors, such as Jane Austin, are also frequented by literary tourists **{5}**. Technologies can make such tours of fictionalized landscapes and places even more immersive and memorable.

In order to enrich and enhance the experience of an augmented reality, the reality must be as richly textured and immersive as possible. Keeping interactions “on theme” is a major element of successful staging of experiences. Machine-to-machine communications, in the form of service oriented architectures (SOA) and web services can be leveraged for augmented reality applications. Web services are vital aspects of communications infrastructure that help facilitate commercial transactions and facilitate the integration of various information resources on the Web. They can be and are used to create customized interfaces to interact with common commercial services. For example, airline reservation systems can be accessed through a specific airline’s web-portal or through the website of an online travel agency. The style, branding, and interface features may differ in these different portals, but they may all use common “backstage” information systems to process your credit card payment and book your reservation and create your seat assignments.

Peer production can have an important role in shaping how people interact with such backstage information systems. User communities have the potential to develop different customized interfaces for backstage web services. These interfaces can be made to fit the specific metaphors and settings of their favorite augmented reality. Each consensual reality will be able to package otherwise mundane services in metaphors appropriate to the fantasy environment.

This discussion describes some important routes toward mass-customization of tourist services. By exposing some backstage processes as web services to the public, a firm can enable user communities to develop different sorts of front-stage interfaces (see discussion below). In other words, a backstage made open and accessible to community development can facilitate peer- production of a wide variety of service experiences.

Next, I want to talk more about TripAdvisor’s role in social media within the tourism landscape and specifically in relation to the “Open Innovation in Tourism (OIT)” phenomenon by analyzing its key features, services, and business model approach. For TripAdvisor’s business and revenue model to work, the company has to solve problems associated with network externalities (the availability of travel reviews and information attracts travellers to the platform, more travel information resources attract more tourism suppliers, more tourism suppliers will pay TripAdvisor if more travellers go to the platform and contribute content, and travellers will not visit the platform unless there is an availability of a huge amount of travel information). This requires continuous innovation. Thus, to increase the invaluable base (i.e. consumer-generated online travel information) that attracts traffic from travellers and in turn persuades businesses to also use and invest in the platform, TripAdvisor has recently developed gamification applications to motivate and inspire travellers to contribute content and interact with others in order to exchange travel resources. Gamification is the application of game-play mechanisms to non-game contexts with the purpose of increasing customer loyalty, commitment, and participation in co-creation applications. The fun-ware design of TripAdvisor’s gamification applications uses various behavioural, feedback, and progression game elements and mechanics to increase travellers’ engagement with the platform. For example, users are motivated to upload information about cities, destinations, suppliers, and attractions that they have visited as well as contribute travel reviews, because this information appears in their user profile as a scorecard and on a leader board, which in turn represents their level of expertise (i.e. international traveller or not, visited famous places or not). This leader board creates a kind of competition/game among users that motivates them to continually upload as much information as possible to increase their self-esteem and social status online. This leader board also motivates interaction and exchanges among users, as it enables travellers to find others with similar travel profiles (e.g. who have been in specific places, so they can e-mail them to get more personalised tips). Traveller profiles also feature a scorecard showing their evaluation score as contributors of reviews, which is based on the score that others are giving them for the reviews that they have written. This game approach motivates travellers to write not only many travel reviews but also good quality reviews. At the same time, the information added to the travellers’ profiles allows businesses to derive market intelligence and better target promotional campaigns.

Open innovation is based on the assumption that an organization cannot just rely on its own resources but has to engage with partners in order to innovate. West and Gallagher **{6}** define it as systematic encouragement and exploration of a range of internal and external sources for innovation. While in the context of Web 2.0 open innovation is often focused specifically on obtaining customer input in the innovation process, Dahlander and Gann **{7}** identify four different kinds of open innovation based on whether the resources are used internally or externally and whether direct monetary compensation is involved; there are two forms of inbound innovation (acquiring and sourcing) and two kinds of outbound innovation (selling and revealing).

TripAdvisor does not build its innovation approach based on customer input but rather acquires technology and innovative services from other companies or acquires entire companies in order to be able to integrate their tools into its platform. It also engages in selling/licensing as well as revealing by releasing its API to selected TripAdvisor partners and making a variety of tools available to tourism firms that can play a critical role in designing new value added services. What is remarkable is the extent to which TripAdvisor engages in these activities. The approach has allowed TripAdvisor to significantly build on its original techno- logical innovation and expand its influence within the tourism industry.

Finally, there are several conclusions related to TripAdvisor and tourism here. 
- TripAdvisor’s success is inherently built on continuously adding value to its services through the expansion of its co-creation ecosystem.
- TripAdvisor’s role as a focal firm in the ecosystem depends on the willingness of consumers to provide content and use the platform for trip planning.
- TripAdvisor’s outbound innovation focus is critical to stimulate innovation within the tourism industry and auxiliary industries.
- TripAdvisor’s innovation approach is not as open as it could be.
- TripAdvisor’s ecosystem reflects the networked nature of tourism and therefore provides important insights for the tourism industry in terms of how innovative service provision can be structured to serve both customer and business partner needs.
- Technological innovations are key drivers for structural changes in the tourism
industry.
- Web 2.0 supports new models for collaboration and network building that have
yet to be fully explored by many players in the tourism industry.
- Understanding the different ways in which open innovation can be structured is critical for tourism industry players in order to identify innovation opportunities.


References

***
1. Peer Production and Cooperation, Yochai Benkler
2. The new influencers: A marketer’s guide to new social media, Gillin, P
3. The trustworthiness of online channels for experience-and goal-directed
search tasks, Dickinger, A
4. The sensuous in the Tourist Encounter: Introduction: The Power of the Body in Tourist Studies, Crouch, David, and Luke Desforges
5. Literary places, tourism and the heritage experience, Herbert, David
6. Challenges of open innovation: The paradox of firm investment in open-source software, West, J., & Gallagher, S
7. How open is innovation?, Dahlander, L., & Gann, D. M.
