The project I choose as part of the Peer Production Participation Project is the Wikiproject Human-Computer Interaction. I choose this project since I am interested in Human-Computer Interaction(HCI) and aspiring to pursue my career in this field. Working on this project would also help me increase my knowledge related to this field and help me connect with other members who are proficient in this field.

The motto of this project is to increase awareness among people about HCI and to add articles related to HCI. There are several fields closely related to HCI like User Experience (UX), Interaction Design(IDX), Information Architecture and Design(IAD), social psychology and so on.

This project also encourages users to add articles related to any other fields that is closely related to HCI field, like the ones mentioned above. This is a peer production project since it allows various users to add articles related to HCI, categorize these articles and improve these articles.

There are several ongoing tasks in this Wikiproject namely, identifying articles related to HCI and tagging them appropriately, identifying articles requiring more citations, determining which articles related to HCI require further editing to effectively communicating their topic, suggesting new articles to be created, finding instructions, guidelines, and archived article assessment details for Wikiproject HCI, and identifying unassessed articles. [1]

There are various roles assigned to the active members in this page such as supreme commander, editor and tester. A new user is assigned a role and has specific permissions based on the role assigned to him. I think that the supreme commander role is assigned to the user who created or started this project. This role has the highest privilege. There is only one user with this role and I think that he is responsible to assigning roles to the new members. This user is also responsible to ensure that the page has contents that are related to the HCI field. There is another role called as editor. I think the user with this role has privileges to add or edit an article in this project. The last role is tester. I think that the user with this role is responsible for categorizing the articles, identifying articles that require more citation and determining the articles which require further editing. A user can be assigned multiple roles. There are few users in this project who have been assigned both editor and tester roles. The Wikiproject page shows the list of members of this project and their status, whether they are active or inactive. I am planning to become a member of this Wikiproject so that I can add, edit and categorize articles related to HCI, based on the role assigned to me and the privileges associated with it. This would help me to understand the process of editing a Wikipedia page and an opportunity to contribute my knowledge about HCI to the society.

References:
1.	“Wikipedia:WikiProject Human–Computer Interaction,” Wikipedia, October 15, 2017, https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_Human%E2%80%93Computer_Interaction&oldid=805469526.
